# [ForEach Processor for Transmission Pipelines](https://claude.ai/chat/45d385ce-13f5-4a93-b3d0-c908ee368119)

bb000669-f6dc-40f6-8a00-63f981433518

# ForEach processor module for Transmissions
Your Goal is to write a processor module for Transmissions that will initiate multiple processing pipelines based on a list provided in the incoming message. First review these instructions as a whole, and then identify the subgoals. Then, taking each subgoal in turn, break it down into a concrete series of tasks. Carry out the sequence of tasks.  
You have plenty of time, so don't rush, try to be as careful in understanding and operation as possible.
Existing source code may be found in the Project Knowledge files.
Two modules are required -
1. `ForEach` located in :
```sh
./transmissions/src/processors/flow/ForEach.js
```
modeled on :
```sh
./transmissions/src/processors/templates/ProcessorTemplate.js
```
2. `FlowProcessorsFactory` located in
``` sh
./transmissions/src/processors/flow/FlowProcessorsFactory.js
```
modeled on :
```sh
/transmissions/src/processors/templates/TemplateProcessorsFactory.js
```
The input message will contain the list to be processed in the form of this example :
```json
{
  "foreach" :
  ["item1", "item2", "item3"]
}
```
The behavior will be to emit the message to a subsequent processor using the existing engine infrastructure, like a simpler version of :
```sh
transmissions/src/processors/fs/DirWalker.js
```
Each message emitted will be a structuredClone of the input message.  
Once this code is completed, create application definitions in the form of these examples :
```sh
transmissions/src/applications/test_fork/transmissions.ttl
transmissions/src/applications/test_fork/processors-config.ttl
```
After you have finished all these, re-read the high level Goal and taking each of your derived subgoals in turn, review your code to ensure that it fulfils the requirements.

---

* **appName** : claude-json-converter
* **appPath** : claude-json-converter
* **subtask** : [undefined]
* **rootDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter
* **dataDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **tags** : ccc10.ccc20.ccc30.ccc40.ccc50
* **done** : [undefined]
* **meta** : {
  "conv_uuid": "45d385ce-13f5-4a93-b3d0-c908ee368119",
  "conv_name": "ForEach Processor for Transmission Pipelines",
  "updated_at": "2024-10-12T13:44:20.359641Z"
}
* **filepath** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/postcraft/content-raw/chat-archives/md/45d3/2024-10-12_bb0.md