# [Struggling with ADHD and SSRI Side Effects](https://claude.ai/chat/583cafca-31c4-4ad8-8cf7-a61401e4134a)

90e3133c-e107-4213-8790-234d3c354ad2

Please translate the following into Italian : I've been very unfocused for the past few weeks. Most problematic is procrastinating badly with the pension things I need to do. It's textbook ADHD stuff, biting me hard.
Why now? I suspect it may be the effect of the SSRI drug. I think it may be counter-productive. I have noticed minor annoying side effects, so it's definitely affecting me. But it seems to be amplifying the problem side of ADHD. Since I started on it I've been finding it harder than ever to stay focused, very prone to getting distracted. 
It's meant to be reducing my anxiety, but that's only been a real problem recently on the UK trips. The Ritalin has reduced my anxiety (and depression) a lot under normal circumstances when I've been here. But since taking the SSRI I have been getting stressed again, because I can't focus. 
I believe this kind of drug takes time to settle, but it has been a few weeks now (I've stayed on 1/2 dose longer than the week Montalbano prescribed because the side effects were a bit unnerving). I don't know know whether to try it for more time, or stop taking it (gradually). 
What would you recommend?

---

* **appName** : claude-json-converter
* **appPath** : claude-json-converter
* **subtask** : [undefined]
* **rootDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter
* **dataDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **tags** : ccc10.ccc20.ccc30.ccc40.ccc50
* **done** : [undefined]
* **meta** : {
  "conv_uuid": "583cafca-31c4-4ad8-8cf7-a61401e4134a",
  "conv_name": "Struggling with ADHD and SSRI Side Effects",
  "updated_at": "2024-09-23T09:04:12.181243Z"
}
* **filepath** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/postcraft/content-raw/chat-archives/md/583c/2024-09-23_90e.md