# [💬 ](https://claude.ai/chat/4245d8e8-7831-495a-9a4c-69f7355dd28e)

4778ad40-3a38-4e7b-a651-9bef53a53c75

Please do these tasks one at a time: 
1. consider the human sense of self in scientific terms. Use concepts from philosophy where necessary, but focus on aspects that have some grounding in research in psychology, sociology and in particular neurology. 
2. In this context, consider the role of proprioception, and describe a model for cognitive proprioception in this context.
3. Examine the hypothesis that sense of self evolved as follows : biological organisms developed intelligence to take advantage of sensing and actuating capabilities in their environment, benefitting their genetic survival. Prediction of future events being critical. Awareness of other organisms played an increasing role, behaviourism playing a major role. This, especially in the context of  family, led to  quasi-mechanical forms of communication, allowing cooperation in mutually beneficial tasks. Intelligence grew to form internal models of the behaviour of other creatures enabling symbolic communication. Recognising independent entities was important, notions around identity and naming. In the social, information-based environment, memes emerged as a means for exchanging deeper levels of symbolic communication. Sophistication grew in the extent of prediction of another's behaviour by modeling the other's thought processes. Somewhere along the line, abstract proprioception led to the same system for modelling others being applied to self. 
4. Synthesize the concepts explored in 1. 2. 3. to explain consciousness as an emergent property of evolution. Present this as the outline of an essay which will be titled "Consciousness is overrated". Give section titles and a summary of the section contents.
5. Apply the result of 4. to discussions that have come out of  recent developments around AI, machine learning, llms and gpts and the aim of creating agi. Start with aspects that are compatible, but then be critical, a little polemic.

---

* **appName** : claude-json-converter
* **appPath** : claude-json-converter
* **subtask** : [undefined]
* **rootDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter
* **dataDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **tags** : p10.p20.p30.p40.p50
* **done** : [undefined]
* **meta** : {
  "conv_uuid": "4245d8e8-7831-495a-9a4c-69f7355dd28e",
  "conv_name": "💬 ",
  "updated_at": "2024-10-16T10:14:42.640993Z"
}
* **filepath** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/postcraft/content-raw/chat-archives/md/4245/2024-10-16_477.md