# [Implementing MarkMap Conversion in Transmissions App](https://claude.ai/chat/ebf4dd53-7801-49ea-9841-0de9ae2cb394)

c1cea090-d02f-40ec-8d03-135f393d4c00

fyi relative paths : on my local system, the transmissions code tree is at `~/github-danny/transmissions` and the trans-apps code at `~/github-danny/trans-apps`.
The goal is to complete the transmissions application in `trans-apps/applications/markmap`. We already have `trans-apps/applications/markmap/transmissions.ttl` and `trans-apps/applications/markmap/config.ttl`. If at runtime the application is given a target, the dataset in the message will contain a list of directories and files. Otherwise it will use whatever is in `config.ttl`. The first step in the transmission is a `ForEach`, from `transmissions/src/processors/flow/ForEach.js`. This should go through the list and emit a suitable message for every input path. (Note that `ForEach` hasn't be properly tested, work may be needed on this). Next follows a `MarkMap` processor. This needs to be written, as `trans-apps/applications/markmap/processors/MarkMap.js`. When this receives a message containing markdown content from eg. `example.md`, it will generate and emit a message for some HTML content and another for corresponding SVG content. Another minimal processor may be needed at this point to correctly set filenames. The final `Writer` will comlete the transmission, and new files will be created : `example.mm.html` and `example.mm.svg`. The generation of the HTML and SVG will be done by the markmap library, examples of its usage can be found in `transmissions/raw-src/markmap/01.js` and `transmissions/raw-src/markmap/01.js`.
First analyse this goal thoroughly with reference to project knowledge. Then create a systematic step-by-step sequence of tasks by which the goal may be achieved. Render this plan as an artifact. Then follow the steps, proving any generated code as individual, complete artifacts I can safe into the codebase.

---

* **sourceFile** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/chat-archives/data-2025-01-25-12-45-58/conversations.json
* **appName** : claude-json-converter
* **appPath** : claude-json-converter
* **subtask** : [undefined]
* **rootDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter
* **dataDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **targetPath** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **tags** : ccc10.ccc20.ccc30.ccc40.ccc50
* **done** : [undefined]
* **meta** : {
  "conv_uuid": "ebf4dd53-7801-49ea-9841-0de9ae2cb394",
  "conv_name": "Implementing MarkMap Conversion in Transmissions App",
  "updated_at": "2024-12-01T12:21:50.276649Z"
}
* **filepath** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/postcraft/content-raw/chat-archives/md/ebf4/2024-12-01_c1c.md