# [Terminology for Cognitive Agents in AI](https://claude.ai/chat/7df219bf-ec43-4873-9670-76a2e6b0fbe6)

f666febd-777b-46a6-981a-fc63e226e46b

I want a term or phrase to describe a class of agents in the context of AI software but much of the vocabulary there is heavily overloaded. Is there anything in the philosophy or natural science literature that might be suitable? These agents will vary widely, and the term should be suitable for describing anything from a pebble on a beach to a human. Typically, the main characteristics are that they are identifiable, can act autonomously and communicate with other agents, but their specifics capabilities will be in a wide range. The pebble can't really communicate, but it can be detected by agents with vision. It can't really act, but it does have affordances, like it can be picked up and thrown. At the other end of the scale, humans are versatile at communication and can carry out a lot of actions. Cognitive ability is another characteristic, but that could range from the pebble that can't think, through say a database or old-fashioned reasoner through to agents with superhuman intelligence. Any thoughts?

---

* **sourceFile** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/chat-archives/data-2025-01-25-12-45-58/conversations.json
* **appName** : claude-json-converter
* **appPath** : claude-json-converter
* **subtask** : [undefined]
* **rootDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter
* **dataDir** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **targetPath** : /home/danny/github-danny/transmissions/src/applications/claude-json-converter/data
* **tags** : ccc10.ccc20.ccc30.ccc40.ccc50
* **done** : [undefined]
* **meta** : {
  "conv_uuid": "7df219bf-ec43-4873-9670-76a2e6b0fbe6",
  "conv_name": "Terminology for Cognitive Agents in AI",
  "updated_at": "2025-01-17T13:14:40.241932Z"
}
* **filepath** : /home/danny/github-danny/hyperdata/docs/postcraft/content-raw/chat-archives/md/7df2/2025-01-17_f66.md